# Demography Seminar: Provenance & Reproducibility

This document is intended to provide some background and description 
on the demography seminar project. This information may provide some 
context for understanding the project’s objectives and strategies.

In the spring 2015, Sarah Pickle of the Penn State University 
Libraries organized a meeting to discuss an opportunity to provide 
instruction to students in Penn State’s dual-degree demography 
program. Sarah had discussed with the director of the demography 
program, Stephen Matthews <sxm27@psu.edu>, a series of seminars 
targeted more at the professional development of the students. The 
outcome of the initial planning meeting was a goal
> “to convey the benefits of good up-front planning for reuse—whether 
> or not you're actually required to write a DMP [data management plan] 
> for your project, whether or not reuse means you’re the only future 
> use.”
> —https://psu.box.com/s/ib8jvfwjo3g7plnqbxppi4a9bghkfnhx, retrieved 
> 2015-10-06 09:14

The group decided to organize the series around the concept of a data 
management plan (DMP). The expectation is that the students are 
likely to encounter the requirement to complete a data analysis plan 
during their professional academic career. Several major funding 
agencies including the National Institutes for Health (NIH) and the 
National Science Foundation (NSF) now require some form of a data 
management plan as a component of the funding application. The skills 
to be covered are generally-accepted “best practices” in conducting 
research and should be applicable whether a data management plan is 
necessary or not. The hope is that the data management plan will 
provide a context in which the value of applying the “best practices” 
will be more obvious to the student.

The group decided on a series of four seminars. The series consists 
of the following topics:  

 - Provenance & Reproducibility (Dan Nugent, Population Research 
Institute) 
 - Data management plans for social scientists (Patricia Hswe, 
University Libraries)
 - Storage, Security and Post-project archiving (Stephen Woods, 
University Libraries)
 - GIS support and community at Penn State (Nathan Piekielek, 
University Libraries)

